Upcoming
* Look at usage of 'will' in Ephesians and the contrasts
* Look at the usage of 'worship' (or lack thereof) in Eph/Col
* Isn't marriage (contract/covenant) something that was introduced after sin?
* exceeding in Eph and 2Cor: some interesting comparisons

* Consider why Israel wasn't allowed into promised land with unbelief:
    * they would have not been able to stand
    * they would not have been ready for God's purpose
* What parallels are there with entering into the Kindgom in NT?
* What parallels are there with our current life and the evil day?

* What are hints that the 'Love of Christ' may refer to the Father's love for
* Christ?

*   Study the link between Mat 13:35 and Psalm 78:2 more. Is Psalm 78 talking
    about secrets?

*   Theory: the Parables speak of the secrets of the kingdom and in particular
    they fill in the delay between the first and second comings of Christ.
    Christ has new instructions in the parables because the stuff He was
    talking about had been secret since the foundation of the world
    (Mat 13:34-35). Also notice the tie in between the quote from Isaiah
    in Mat 13:13-15 and in Acts 28:25-27.

*   Notice the use of parable in the OT when spoken to 'foolish' or 
    'rebellious'? What is the significance of a parable in the Old Testament?

*   Do the parables give us any hints about what's going on with Paul's
    ministry during the Acts period? Is the Apostle of the Nations
    fulfilling Luke 14:23? Or is that just John's ministry?

*   What is the relationship between Luke 8:10 and Rom 11:25?

*   Is Rom 16:25 related to the 'Mysteries of the Kingdom'?

*   Notice how the disciples asked Christ about the meaning of the parables
    in Mat 13:36. Is there a parallel here with the prayers in Eph? It's one
    thing for a secret to be uttered, but it's another to really understand.

*   Christ the Prophet in the Gospels, the Great high Priest in Acts,
    and the King of Kings in Revelation. Israel was expecting a king reigning
    immediately. In actual fact, Christ seemed to identify Himself with a 
    prophet's role during the gospels and didn't seem to directly answer to 
    'King of the Jews'. Christ ascended to his Priestly duties 
    (and as an Advocate and Intercessor) during the Acts period.
    One day He will again return as King of Kings and Lord of Lords.

*   In Mark 13: is Christ referring to the destruction of the temple in AD 70,
    or is he referring to future judgment at Jerusalem in Revelation?
    The future destruction of the temple makes sense given the context
    From the perspective of It would appear that the temple existed during the
    Acts period and just continued until the antichrist (but in fact it was
    destroyed in AD70 and will have to be rebuilt before the antichrist shows
    up). The Mystery sits in between.

*   What does Mark 13:10 refer to?

*   Consider the OT wilderness period and how the cloud/piller of fire guided
    Israel from heaven (but still in proximity to earth). Then consider the
    Mystery period of the Kingdom (like a second wilderness journey) and
    Christ on high with the tabernacle in heaven.

Brainstorm: important questions regarding The Mystery
* Did Christ's work end when he ascended up to heaven?
* Is your relationship to God based on a covenant or contract?
* Does God view Israel as different from other nations?
* Are you a part of the Bride or the Husband himself?
* Are you waiting for the Marriage of the Lamb, or are you part of Him already?
* Are you waiting to enter the Kingdom, or have you been translated?
* Are you waiting for Christ to return, or are you seated with Him already?
* Do you share in the promise made to Abraham or to the Son Himself?
* How do we know the Bible is complete?
* Is there a God-ordained church hierarchy in place today?
* Does ceremony please God?
* Are we suffering for Chirst today?

Design review for GNT search sets
---------------------------------

All query results returned as sets (immutable collections of unique items).

The GNT can be expressed as sets at different levels of abstraction
    words - subset of the text
    forms - subset of inflected forms
    roots - subset of Strongs roots
    verses - subset of verses
    pos - subset of parts of speech

A search will typically start at one level of abstraction and move to another.
Functions must be used to convert between sets at different levels of
abstraction. The result is always a set (contains no duplicates). This means
that some functions are necessarily one way.

For example, to find all the roots in Eph

    roots(words(verses('eph')))

Set theory can be used on sets at the same level of abstraction. See the set
operators for Python. For example, to find all roots common to Eph and Col

    roots(words(verses('eph'))) & roots(words(verses('col')))

Or to find all roots in Eph and Col

    roots(words(verses('eph') | verses('col')))

Interesting possibilities exist. This would find all root verbs in Eph

    roots(forms(pos('VERB'))) & roots(forms(words(verses('eph'))))

To find all verses in Mat that contain G4172

    verses('mat') & verses(words(forms('G4172')))

We may also consider abbreviated functions. So the previous search may look like

    V('mat') & V(W(F('G4172')))
