The Acts Period and Two Significant Changes to the Temple
---------------------------------------------------------

Compare Heb 10 and Eph 2. In one case, Paul is looking at the ripped veil and
the access for Isreal through it made possible by the flesh of Christ. In the
other, Paul is looking at the Middle Wall completely broken down and the access
to the Father for all Nations made possible through the flesh of Christ. A
physical change in the earthly temple reflects an important development in God's
plan in both cases.

         Ripped Veil <-------- Acts Perios --------> Broken Down Wall

Before the start of Acts: the veil is rent
    *   "By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through
        the veil, that is to say, his flesh" (Heb 10:20)
            A   The New Covenant (v16)
            B   Access to the Holiest (v19)
            C   High Priest over the House of God (v21)
    *   As a an uncircumcised Gentile, this alone does not help me: I'm
        still stuck outside the wall!

After the end of Acts: the middle wall is broken down
    *   "He is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the
        middle wall of partition betwen us; having abolished in His flesh
        the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances"
        (Eph 2:14-15)
            A   Strangers from the covenants (v12)
            B   Access to the Father (v18)
            C   Of the household of God (v19)
    *   The distinction between Nations is gone. A new temple is being built.

Important context for this discussion is found in Eze 44:9. Note the
restriction that "no stranger" could enter the sanctuary of the
tabernacle. You were a stranger if you were either
    A) uncircumcised in heart
    B) uncircumcised in flesh

The saved Gentiles in the Acts period were circumcised in heart, but were
not required to be circumcised in flesh. These believers were provoking
unsaved Israelites, who where circumcised in flesh but not in heart, to
jealously. They partook of the blessings of Israel without the fleshly
requirements of Israel. Those Gentiles, circumcised in heart but not in
flesh, would not have access to the sanctuary according to Eze 44:9.

The ultimate reconciliation of this difference does not happen until Eph
2:14. At this point, the wall between the two is totally broken down and
something entirely new is being built.

Questions:
    * Does the earthly temple get rebuilt?
    * In Revelation, isn't the emphasis on the Heavenly Temple?
    * How do the holies in Eph differ from the holies in Heb?
